The President:
One year ago today,
a quiet, peaceful town
was shattered by
unspeakable violence.
Six dedicated school workers
and 20 beautiful children
were taken from
our lives forever.
As parents, as Americans,
the news filled us with grief.
Newtown is a town like
so many of our hometowns.
The victims were
educators and kids
that could have been
any of our own.
And our hearts were
broken for the families
that lost a piece
of their heart;
for the communities
changed forever;
for the survivors, so young,
whose innocence was
torn away far too soon.
But beneath the sadness,
we also felt a
sense of resolve -
that these tragedies must end,
and that to end them,
we must change.
From the very beginning,
our efforts were led
by the parents of Newtown -
men and women,
impossibly brave,
who stepped forward in the hopes
that they might spare
others their heartbreak.
And they were joined by
millions of Americans -
mothers and fathers;
sisters and brothers -
who refused to accept
these acts of violence
as somehow inevitable.
Over the past year, their
voices have sustained us.
And their example
has inspired us -
to be better parents
and better neighbors;
to give our children
everything they need
to face the world without fear;
to meet our responsibilities
not just to our own families,
but to our communities.
More than the tragedy itself,
that's how Newtown
will be remembered.
And on this anniversary of
a day we will never forget,
that's the example we
should continue to follow.
Because we haven't yet done
enough to make our communities
and our country safer.
We have to do more to
keep dangerous people
from getting their hands
on a gun so easily.
We have to do more to
heal troubled minds.
We have to do everything we
can to protect our children
from harm and make
them feel loved,
and valued, and cared for.
And as we do, we can't
lose sight of the fact
that real change won't
come from Washington.
It will come the way
it's always come -
from you.
From the American people.
As a nation, we can't stop
every act of violence.
We can't heal every
troubled mind.
But if we want to live in a
country where we can go to work,
send our kids to school,
and walk our streets
free from fear,
we have to keep trying.
We have to keep caring.
We have to treat every child
like they're our child.
Like those in Sandy Hook,
we must choose love.
And together,
we must make a change.
Thank you.